**Create a standalone Runner project**

This command can be used to create a standalone `Runner` project for either `iOS` or `Android` or both. 

The generated `Runner` project is not very different from the one that gets generated to support `ern run-ios` and `ern run-android` commands. 

At the difference of the `Runner` generated by `ern run-ios` and `ern run-android` commands, this `Runner` application project is not bound to a single `MiniApp`. Therefore the command should be invoked from a directory that is not a `MiniApp`.

This command can help with kickstarting an application project containing multiple `MiniApps`.

The projects will be generated in `android` and `ios` directories from where the command is executed.

### Command

#### `ern create-runner <mainMiniAppName> <platforms..> --miniApps <miniapps..>`

Create `Runner` application project(s) that will use a `Container` containing one or more `miniapps`.  
`platforms` is a list of platforms for which to generate the runner. It can either be 'ios', 'android' or both.  
`mainMiniAppName` is the name of the main `MiniApp` (i.e the `MiniApp` that should get launched when the `Runner` is started).


#### `ern create-runner <mainMiniAppName> <platforms..> --dependencies <dependencies..>`

Allow to provide extra native `dependencies` to include in the container.  
This option can only be used in conjunction with `--miniapps` option and not with `--descriptor` option.

#### `ern create-runner <mainMiniAppName> <platforms..> --descriptor <descriptor>`

Create `Runner` application projects(s) that will use a `Container` containing all the `MiniApps` and the native `dependencies` that are part of the mobile application version container matching the descriptor.
`platforms` is a list of platforms for which to generate the runner. It can either be 'ios', 'android' or both.  
`mainMiniAppName` is the name of the main `MiniApp` (i.e the `MiniApp` that should get launched when the `Runner` is started).

### Remarks

As of now, there is no convenient `ern` command to launch the generated `Runners`. You'll need to manually open the generated `Runner` projects in `Android Studio` / `XCode` and compile them / launch them from there (or use commands to achieve the same).  